>> Woodruff: TOP DIPLOMATS FROM
THE U.S., ROPEEU AND RUSSIA MET
TODAY IN PARIS, TRYING TO FORGE
A PEACEFUL END TO THE CRISIS IN
UKRAINE.
BUT MOSCOW'S FOREIGN MINISTER
REFUSED TO MEET WITH HIS
COUNTERPART FROM KIEV.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL,
ALSO AHEAD TONIGHT.
MAJORS CHANGES TO THE S.A.T.
THE COLLEGE ADMISSIONS EXAM WILL
BE OVERHAULED TO BETTER REFLECT
THE WORK OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
AND FOCUS ON RELEVANT ACADEMIC
SKILLS.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, MILES
O'BRIEN'S SECOND REPORT FROM THE
CRIPPLED FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR
PLANT.
HOW THE MELTDOWN IS STILL
AFFECTING FISH IN NEARBY WATERS.
>> CESIUM RELEASED AT THE
CRIPPLED NUCLEAR POWER PLANT HAS
MADE ITS WAY INTO THE SEDIMENT.
THAT MAKES IT UNLIKELY THESE
FUKUSHIMA FLOUNDER WILL BE
DEEMED SAFE ENOUGH TO CATCH AND
SELL ANYTIME SOON.
>> Ifill: AND, A LOOK AT TAINTED
WATERS HERE IN THE U.S.
ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST
COAL PRODUCERS GETS SLAPPED WITH
PENALTIES IN THE HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, AND ORDERED
TO CLEAN UP WATERWAYS IN FIVE
DIFFERENT STATES.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE PUSH FOR A
PEACEFUL RESOLUTION IN UKRAINE
STALLED AGAIN TODAY.
WHEN ALL WAS SAID AND DONE, IT
REMAINED UNCLEAR IF OR WHEN
RUSSIAIGHT M RECONSIDER ITS
ACTIONS IN THE CRIMEAN REGION.
>> Ifill: PARIS WAS THE FOCAL
POINT FOR TODAY'S DIPLOMACY, BUT
NEGOTIATORS CAME AWAY WITH
LITTLE TO SHOW FOR THEIR
EFFORTS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
MET WITH HIS COUNTERPARTS FROM
RUSSIA, BRITAIN, FRANCE AND
GERMANY.
THE SESSION WAS BRIEF WITH NO
BREAKTHROUGHS.
KERRY SAID THE MEETINGS WERE
CONSTRUCTIVE, AND THAT NO ONE IS
SERVED BY FURTHER CONFRONTATION.
>> WE AGREED TO CONTINUE THESE
INTENSE DISCUSS IN COMING DAYS
WITH RUSSIA, WITH UKRAINIANS, IN
ORDER TO SEE WHO WE CAN HELP
NORMALIZE, STABILIZE AND
OVERCOME THIS CRISIS.
>> Ifill: BUT RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER SERGEI LAVROV GAVE NO
INDICATION, BEFORE OR AFTER THE
PARIS MEETING, THAT MOSCOW WOULD
PULL BACK IN CRIMEA.
INSTEAD, HE INSISTED, AGAIN,
THAT THE TROOPS OCCUPYING MUCH
OF THE REGION ARE NOT RUSSIAN,
BUT LOCAL.
>> ( translated ): REGARDING THE
SELF-DEFENSE FORCES CREATED BY
THE PEOPLE OF CRIMEA, WE DO NOT
HAVE ANY POWER OVER THEM, THEY
DO NOT LISTEN TO OUR ORDERS.
>> Ifill: LAVROV ALSO DECLINED
TO MEET WITH UKRAINE'S ACTING
FOREIGN MINISTER.
HE SAID THERE WOULD BE FURTHER
DISCUSSIONS IN DAYS TO COME.
MEANWHILE, IN CRIMEA ITSELF,
U.N. SPECIAL ENVOY ROBERT SERRY
WAS FORCED TO ABANDON HIS
MISSION THERE AFTER HIS CAR WAS
SURROUNDED AND HE WAS THREATENED
BY A PRO-RUSSIAN CROWD.
NEW TROUBLE CROPPED UP ELSEWHERE
AS WELL.
PRO-RUSSIAN ACTIVISTS STORMED
AND RE-TOOK A GOVERNMENT
BUILDING IN THE EASTERN CITY OF
DONETSK, ONLY HOURS AFTER BEING
EJECTED.
THERE'S BEEN NO TALK OF ANY
AMERICAN MILITARY ACTION IN
UKRAINE, BUT DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCK HAGEL TOLD A SENATE
HEARING THAT THE PENTAGON IS
TAKING OTHER STEPS.
>> I EARLIER THIS WEEK DIRECTED
THE D.O.D. TO SUEND SPALL
MILITARY TO MILITARY ENGAGEMENTS
AND EXERCISES WITH RUSSIA.
PURSUING MEASURES TO SUPPORT OUR
ALLIES, INCLUDING STEPPING UP
JOINT TRAINING THROUGH OUR
AVIATION DETACHMENT IN POLAND.
AND AUGMENTING OUR PARTICIPATION
IN N.A.T.O.'S AIR POLICING
MISSION IN THE BALKAN PENINSULA.
>> Ifill: THE HEAD OF N.A.T.O.
SAID THE ALLIANCE ALSO DECIDED
TO SUSPEND MOST OF ITS MEETINGS
WITH RUSSIAN OFFICIALS, AND
REVIEW ALL OF ITS COOPERATION
WITH MOSCOW.
ON THE ECONOMIC FRONT, PRIME
MINISTER ARSENIY YATSENYUK, IN
KIEV, TALKED UP PROSPECTS OF
IMMEDIATE FINANCIAL AID FROM THE
WEST.
>> A GOOD GESTURE MADE BY THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT TO
SUPPORT THE STATE OF UKRAINE
WITH ONE BILLION DOLLARS OF
GUARANTEES IS A FIRST SIGN THAT
UKRAINE COULD BE BACK ON TRACK
IN TERMS OF ECONOMIC STABILITY.
BUT WE NEED TO MOVE FURTHER AND
WE STRONGLY BELIEVE THAT OUR
EUROPEAN PARTNERS WOULD PROVIDE
A PACKAGE OF ECONOMIC AND
FINANCIAL AID TO UKRAINE TOO.
>> Ifill: THE EUROPEAN UNION
CONFIRMED IT, SAYING A $15
BILLION PACKAGE OVER TWO YEARS
IS IN THE WORKS.
THAT'S THE SAME AMOUNT THAT NOW-
DEPOSED UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT
VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH ACCEPTED FROM
RUSSIA IN NOVEMBER.
FOR HIS PART, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADMIR PUTIN SAID TODAY THERE'S
NO REASON TO DAMAGE ECONOMIC
TIES BETWEEN HIS COUNTRY AND THE
REST OF THE WORLD.
>> ( translated ): WE SEE A
CERTAIN POLITICAL TENSION, BUT
IT SHOULD NOT INFLUENCE OUR
CURRENT ECONOMIC COOPERATION.
THERE IS NO NEED TO CREATE
ADDITIONAL PROBLEMS FOR YONEAN.
>> Reporter: DESPITE PUTIN'S
PLEA, EUROPEAN LEADERS HAVE
GIVEN RUSSIA UNTIL TOMORROW TO
LEAVE CRIMEA OR FACE SANCTIONS.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
RESEARCHERS REPORT A SECOND BABY
BORN WITH H.I.V. HAS BEEN
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME TODAY AT
AN AIDS CONFERENCE IN BOSTON.
THE BABY GIRL, BORN IN
CALIFORNIA, WAS TREATED WITH A
DRUG COMBINATION ALMOST
IMMEDIATELY AFTER BIRTH.
SHE IS NOW NINE MONTHS OLD AND
FREE OF THE VIRUS.
THE SAME TREATMENT PREVIOUSLY
WORKED ON A BABY BORN IN
MISSISSIPPI.
>> Ifill: AMERICANS WHO LIKE
THEIR EXISTING HEALTH INSURANCE
COVERAGE MAY GET TO KEEP IT
ANOTHER TWO YEARS.
THAT WOULD EXTEND A TRANSITION
FIRST ANNOUNCED LAST FALL AFTER
MILLIONS HAD THEIR POLICIES
CANCELED UNDER THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTH CARE LAW.
NOW, ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
SAY THE EXTENSIONS WILL BE VALID
TO OCTOBER FIRST OF 2016, EVEN
THEIF POLICIES DON'T MEET NEW
REQUIREMENTS FOR COVERAGE.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
NOMINEE TO LEAD THE CIVIL RIGHTS
DIVISION AT THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT WAS BLOCKED TODAY.
DEBO ADEGBILE FELL WELL SHORT IN
A SENATE TEST VOTE, WITH SEVEN
DEMOCRATS JOINING REPUBLICANS IN
OPPOSITION.
THEY CRITICIZED ADEGBILE'S WORK
AT THE N.A.A.C.P. LEGAL DEFENSE
FUND, WHICH REPRESENTED MUMIA
ABU-JAMAL, WHO IN 1981 WAS
CONVICTED OF KILLING A
PHILADELPHIA POLICEMAN.
SENATE MINORITY LEADER MITCH
MCCONNELL.
>> I THINK THIS PARTICULAR
NOMINEE WOULD LIKELY NOT HAVE
BEEN NOMINATED AT ALL BUT FOR
THE MAJORITY LEADER BREAKING THE
RULES OF THE SENATE LAST
NOVEMBER TO CHANGE THE RULES OF
THE SENATE, THEREBY LOWERING THE
THRESHOLD.
THIS NOMINEE, HOWEVER, WAS SO
UNFIT FOR THE POSITION TO WHICH
HE'S BEEN NOMINATED THAT EVEN
SEVEN DEMOCRATS COULDN'T SUPPORT
IT.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED
THE SENATE VOTE A TRAVESTY.
AND THE SENATE'S DEMOCRATIC
MAJORITY LEADER, HARRY REID,
SAID THE NOMINEE WAS TREATED
UNFAIRLY.
>> THIS MAN DID NOT ENTER A
COURTROOM FOR THE MURDERER.
HE DIDN'T WRITE A SINGLE WORD OF
ANY OF THE BRIEFS ON BEHALF OF
THE MURDERER.
HE WORKED AT THE NAACP.
IT WASN'T HIS BRIEF.
>>> THE COST OF THE SUCCESS
APPEARED UNCERTAIN AT BEST.
HOMEOWNERS IN FLOOD-PRONE AREAS
MAY SOON GET RELIEF FROM HIGHER
>> Ifill: HOMEOWNERS IN FLOOD-
PRONE AREAS MAY SOON GET RELIEF
FROM HIGHER PREMIUMS FOR FEDERAL
FLOOD INSURANCE.
THE HOUSE VOTED OVERWHELMINGLY
LAST NIGHT TO UNDO THE
INCREASES.
THEY WERE IMPOSED UNDER A 2012
LAW TO HELP THE  PROGRAM TACKLE
ITS $24 BILLION DEBT.
THE HOUSE MEASURE NOW HAS TO BE
RECONCILED WITH A SIMILAR BILL
THAT PASSED THE SENATE.
>> Ifill: A LEADING COAL
PRODUCER AGREED TODAY TO PAY A
$27 MILLION FINE  AND SPEND
ANOTHER $200 MILLION TO REDUCE
TOXIC DISCHARGES.
THE SETTLEMENT INVOLVES
ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES AND ITS
OPERATIONS IN KENTUCKY,
PENNSYLVANIA, TENNESSEE,
VIRGINIA AND WEST VIRGINIA.
IT'S LARGEST FINE EVER FOR WATER
POLLUTN VIIOOLATIONS. WE'LL HAVE
MORE ON THE PENALTY LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
IN TEXAS, REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS HAVE CHOSEN THEIR
NOMINEES FOR GOVERNOR IN A
CLOSELY WATCHED RACE.
ATTORNEY GENERAL GREG ABBOTT
SECURED THE G.O.P. NOMINATION IN
A TUESDAY PRIMARY, WHILE
DEMOCRATS CHOSE STATE SENATOR
WENDY DAVIS.
THEY'LL FACE OFF IN NOVEMBER.
>> Ifill: ISRAEL SEIZED A SHIP
IN THE RED SEA TODAY AND SAID IT
CARRIED ADVANCED ROCKETS
INTENDED FOR PALESTINIAN
MITANTLIS IN GAZA.
THE NAVAL RAID HAPPENED IN
INTERNATIONAL WATERS, ABOUT A
THOUSAND MILES OFF EILAT ON THE
ISRAELI COAST.
THE ROCKETS WERE FOUND ABOARD A
SHIP FLYING THE PANAMANIAN FLAG.
ISRAEL'S MILITARY SAID THEY WERE
MADE IN SYRIA AND SMUGGLED BY
IRAN.
TRAVELING IN LOS ANGELES,
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU SAID IT'S SHOWS IRAN
CANNOT BE TRUSTED, ESPECIALLY IN
ONGOINNUCLG EAR TALKS.
>> THESE WEAPONS WERE GOING TO
BE USED AGAINST ISRAEL.
THE ENTIRE OPERATION, THIS
CLANDESTINE OPERATION WAS
ORGANIZED BY IRAN.
WHILE IRAN IS CONDUCTING THESE
TALKS, SMILING TO THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IT
CONTINUES TO ARM TERRORIST
GROUPS CONTINUES TO PERPETRATE
TERRORISM AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Ifill: IRAN DENIED ANY
INVOLVEMENT.
AND A SPOKESMAN FOR HAMAS, THE
MILITANT GROUP RULING GAZA,
DENIED THE ROCKETS WERE BOUND
FOR ITS TERRITORY.
>> ( translated ): THIS ZIONIST
TALE IS A SILLY CLAIM AND A
FUTILE FABRICATION AIMED AT
JUSTIFYING THE BLOCKADE ON THE
GAZA STRIP, AS IF THERE WAS A
FROM GAZA.
IN ACTUALITY, THE STRIP IS
BLOCKADED AND THEY ARE TALKING
ABOUT A SHIP THAT WAS FOUND IN
THE RED SEA THOUSANDS OF MILES
AWAY.
THIS IS A BIG LIE.
>> Ifill: IN WASHINGTON,  THE
STATE DEPARTMENT SAID  THE U.S.
WORKED CLOSELY WITH THE ISRAELIS
AS THEY PLANNED THE RAID, AND
AGREED TO LET THEM TAKE THE
LEAD.
MEANWHILE, IRAN CLAIMED IT NOW
HAS  MISSILES WITH MULTIPLE
WARHEADS.
FOUR TYPES OF BALLISTIC MISSILES
WERE DISPLAYED TODAY.
THE DEFENSE MINISTER SAID TWO OF
THEM HAVE MULTIPLE WARHEADS,
BOOSTING THEIR DESTRUCTIVE
POWER.
SOME OF IRAN'S MISSILES ARE
BELIEVED TO HAVE A 1200-MILE
RANGE, CAPABLE OF REACHING MUCH
OF THE MIDDLE EAST.
U.N. HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTIGATORS
CHARGED TODAY THAT ALL SIDES IN
SYRIA'S CIVIL WAR ARE COMMITTING
WAR CRIMES BY SHELLING AND
STARVING CIVILIANS.
THE INVESTIGATORS BLAMED THE
MAJOR POWERS FOR NOT ACTING TO
REIN IN THE WARRING PARTIES.
AND, THEY CALLED AGAIN FOR THE
U-N SECURITYOUNC CIL TO REFER
THE WORST VIOLATIONS TO THE
INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT.
PAKISTAN HAS RESTARTED PEACE
TALKS WITH THE TALIBAN.
THE TWO SIDES MET TODAY FOR THE
FIRST TIME IN THREE WEEKS AFTER
THE PAKISTANI TALIBAN ANNOUNCED
A ONE-MONTH CEASEFIRE.
PRIME MINISTER NAWAZ SHARIF HAS
PUSHED FOR NEGOTIATIONS SINCE HE
TOOK OFFICE LAST YEAR, BUT
THEY'VE PROCEEDED IN FITS AND
STARTS.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION IS
RECOMMENDING THAT DAILY
CONSUMPTION OF SUGAR BE CUT IN
HALF, AMOUNTING TO JUST FIVE
PERCENT OF YOUR TOTAL CALORIES.
THE W.H.O. FOUND HIGHER SUGAR
CONSUMPTION IS STRONGLY TIED TO
OBESITY, TOOTH DECAY AND A
NUMBER OF CHRONIC DISEASES.
>> Ifill: ON WALL STREET TODAY,
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST MORE THAN 35 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 16,360.
THE NASDAQ ROSE SIX POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR  4,358.
AND THE STANDARD AND POOR'S 500
FINISHED DOWN A FRACTION, AT
1,873.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
MAJOR CHANGES TO THE S.A.T.; HOW
FISH ARE FARING IN THE WATERS
AROUND FUKUSHIMA; TROUBLE FOR
JOURNALISTS, IN EGYPT AND
ELSEWHERE; PLUS, THE LARGEST
PENALTY EVER FOR A COAL COMPANY
POLLUTING U.S. WATERWAYS.
>> Woodruff: THE S.A.T, LONG A
SUBJECT OF GREAT DEBATE, IS
ABOUT TO UNDERGO SOME BIG
CHANGES.
THE COLLEGE BOARD, WHICH
ADMINISTERS THE EXAM, ANNOUNCED
A PARTIAL OVERHAUL THAT WILL
TAKE EFFECT IN THE SPRING OF
2016.
THE CHANGES INCLUDE:
THERE WILL BE NEW FEE WAIVERS
FOR LOWER-INCOME STUDENTS TOO.
COLLEGE BOARD PRESIDENT DAVID
COLEMAN SAID HE WAS CONCERNED
THE S.A.T., AND THE COSTLY
TESTING MANIA SURROUNDING IT,
WAS PUTTING AN EVEN BIGGER
BURDEN ON DISADVANTAGED
STUDENTS.
>> WE MUST CONFRONT THE
INEQUALITIES THAT NOW SURROUND
ASSESSMENT SUCH AS COSTLY TEST
PREPARATION.
THERE IS TIME FOR THE COLLEGE
BOARD TO SAY IN A CLEAR VOICE,
THE CULTURE AND PRACTICE OF TEST
PREPARATION THAT NOW SURROUNDS
ADMISSIONS EXAMS DRIVES THE
PERCEPTION OF INEQUALITY AND
INJUSTICE IN OUR COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: FOR >> Woodruff: FK
AT THE CHANGES AND THE REASON
BEHIND IT, WE TURN TO SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR EDUCATION,
JOHN MERROW.
JOHN, WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
FIRST OF ALL, HOW BIG A DEAL IS
THIS THAT THEY'RE MAKING THESE
CHANGES?
>> I THINK IT'S A BIG DEAL.
THE CHANGES YOU MENTIONED,
STUDENTS WILL APPLAUD SEVERAL OF
THEM -- GETTING RID OF THE
OBSCURE VOCABULARY WORDS, USING
"PROPITIOUS" IN FAVOR OF
SELF-DEPRECATING.
THEY WILL BE IN FAVOR OF THAT.
THEY WILL BE IN FAVOR OF GETTING
RID OF THE PENALTY FOR GUESSING
AND GETTING RID OF THE MANDATORY
ESSAY.
THE OLDER FOLKS WILL LIKE GOING
BACK TO 1600 INSTEAD OF 2400.
THERE'S A SEARCH COMFORT LEVEL
WITH THE NUMBER 1600.
IT'S KIND OF LIKE THE NEW COKE,
THAT WAS AN EXPERIMENT THAT
DIDN'T WORK.
AND I THINK EVERYONE WILL
APPLAUD THE FEE WAIVER FOR
CERTAIN LOW-INCOME STUDENTS TO
MAKE IT EASIER FOR THEM TO USE
THE S.A.T.
>> Reporter: SO WHEN THE
PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE BOARD
SAID HE SAW AMONG OTHER THINGS
THE TEST SHOULD OFFER WORTHY
CHALLENGES NOT ARTIFICIAL
OBSTACLES, WHAT WAS HE SAYING?
>> WELL, I THINK HE WANTS TO
MAKE THE TEST MORE RELEVANT, TO
MAKE THE S.A.T. MORE RELEVANT.
IN THE QUESTIONS, THE LANGUAGE
PART OF IT, THE STUDENTS WILL BE
READING SOURCE DOCUMENTS -- A
LETTER AND ASKED TO MAKE
JUDGMENTS AND FIND EVIDENCE.
SO THAT'S NOT GOING TO BE
SUSCEPTIBLE TO TEST PREP.
WHETHER IT TURNS OUT THAT WAY, I
WOULD SUSPEND JUDGMENT ON THAT.
>> Reporter: IS IT POSSIBLE TO
SAY BY LOOKING AT THESE CHANGES
WHAT'S GOING TO BE TESTED IN
EACH STUDENT?
>> WELL, WHAT MR. COLEMAN WANTS
IS THAT THIS WILL CONNECT MORE
CLOSELY TO THE HIGH SCHOOL
CURRICULUM, WHICH IS, OF COURSE,
ITSELF BEING CHANGED.
AND IN THE CLIP YOU PLAYED AND
THE OTHER PARTS OF HIS SPEECH,
HE WENT AFTER TEST PREP, SAYING
THAT THIS IS A SOURCE OF
INEQUALITY, THAT WEALTHY
FAMILIES CAN PAY FOR TEST PREP
AND THAT GIVES THEM AN UNFAIR
ADVANTAGE.
AND YOU DIDN'T MENTION THAT
THERE'S AN ALLIANCE FORMED WITH
SALCON, THE FOUNDER OF THE CONN
ACADEMY, THAT WOULD HAVE FREE
PREP LESSONS SO PEOPLE WON'T
HAVE TO SPEND ALL THAT MONEY TO
GET READY FOR THE S.A.T., THAT'S
HIS HOPE.
I'M A LITTLE SKEPTICAL ABOUT
THAT.
IF HE WAS TRYING TO DRIVE A
STAKE THROUGH THE HEART TO HAVE
THE TEST PREP INDUSTRY, GOOD
LUCK WITH THAT.
THEY'RE SMART PEOPLE AND I
PREDICT THEIR BUSINESS WILLTUALL
BE ABLE TO SAY, HEY, THERE'S A
NEW S.A.T., WE CAN HELP YOU GET
READY FOR IT.
>> Reporter: WHEN HE SAYS HE'S
CONCERNED ABOUT INEQUALITY, THE
FACT THAT STUDENTS WHO ARE
DISADVANTAGED HAVE BEEN --
STUDENTS WHO COME FROM A
LOW-INCOME BACKGROUND, FOR
EXAMPLE, MAY BE DISADVANTAGED,
DO YOU SEE THESE CHANGES
ADDRESSING THAT?
>> IT MAY BE THAT THE DIFFERENT
CONTENT OF THE S.A.T. WILL WORK
TO THE ADVANTAGE OF STUDENTS WHO
TEND TO BUSINESS, WHO DO THEIR
WORK, AND THAT SHOULDN'T BE
DETERMINED BY YOUR INCOME LEVEL.
THIS TEST HAS ALMOST ALWAYS BEEN
A BETTER PREDICTOR OF YOUR
PARENTS' INCOME AND EDUCATION
THAN OF HOW WELL YOU MIGHT DO AS
A FRESHMAN, HE ACKNOWLEDGES
THAT.
I THINK WHAT'S HAPPENING -- PART
OF WHAT'S HAPPENING HERE IS THAT
THE COLLEGE BOARD IS PAYING
ATTENTION TO MARKET SHARE.
NOW, IT'S A DIRECT COMPETITOR OF
ANOTHER TEST CALLED THE A.C.T.
AND JUST TWO YEARS AGO THE
A.C.T. SURPASSED THE S.A.T.
MORE KIDS TOOK THE S.A.T A.C.T.E
S.A.T.
AND THIS MATTERS BECAUSE THEY'RE
BOTH BUSINESSES.
JUST LIKE RESTAURANTS, THEY NEED
CUSTOMERS.
EVEN MORE UPSETTING, I THINK,
FOR THE S.A.T. IS THAT A NUMBER
OF STUDENTS HAVE EMBRACED THE
A.C.T.
KENTUCKY WILL USE THE A.C.T. AS
A MEASURE OF SCHOOL QUALITY.
I DON'T THAT ANY STATE USES THE
S.A.T.
PERHAPS.
THERE ARE 13 TO 14 STATES NOW
RELY ON THE A.C.T., AND THAT HAS
TO BE A LITTLE SCARY FOR THE
FOLKS AT THE S.A.T.
SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, THAT'S
PART OF WHAT'S DRIVING THIS.
THEY'RE LOSING MARKET SHARE.
>> Reporter: AND REMIND US
IN --
>> Woodruff: AND REMIND US IN
THUMBNAIL A, WHAT IS THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TWO TWO
TESTS?
>> WELL, THE A.C.T. HAS A
SCIENCE SECTION, THE S.A.T. DOES
NOT.
THE A.C.T. IS MUCH MORE ALIGNED
WITH HIGH SCHOOL CURRICULUM,
MORE OF AN ACHIEVEMENT TEST.
S.A.T., WHAT DOES THE A. STAND
FOR?
AT ONE POINT THE SCHOLASTIC
APTITUDE, THEN THE SCHOLASTIC
ACHIEVEMENT TEST.
SOME SAY IT'S SCHOLASTIC
ADVANTAGE TEST.
IT'S NOW KNOWN AS THE S.A.T.
JUST LIKE K.F.C. USED TO BE
KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN.
I THINK THE A.C.T. IS SEEN BY
MORE PEOPLE AS BEING A MORE
RELIABLE TEST AND MR. COLEMAN IS
MOVING AGGRESSIVELY TO
COUNTERACT THAT.
>> Woodruff: YOU STARTED OUT
BY MAKING A DISTINCTION BETWEEN
HOW STUDENTS WILL SEE THIS AND
HOW SOME ADULTS WILL SEE IT AND,
FINALLY, IF YOU'RE A STUDENT AND
IF YOU'RE A PARENT OR AN
EDUCATOR, HOW DO YOU VIEW --
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THIS CHANGE?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THE OTHER
PART OF THIS, JUDY, IS THAT
ABOUT 800 COLLEGES NO LONGER
REQUIRE EITHER OF THESE TESTS.
SO THAT'S ANOTHER FACTOR IN
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE.
MR. COLEMAN IS MOVING TO SAY
THIS S.A.T. MATTERS.
THE MARKET SHARE TO HAVE THE
A.C.T. AND 800-PLUS COLLEGES
REQUIRE NEITHER THE A.C.T. NOR
THE S.A.T., HE'S MOVING
AGGRESSIVELY TO MAKE THAT
HAPPEN.
I TALKED TO NICK LEMON WHO KNOWS
MORE ABOUT THIS THAN JUST ABOUT
ANYONE AND HE SAID, ON BALANCE,
THESE ARE POSITIVE CHANGES,
THESE ARE A GOOD THING.
WE'LL SEE.
I KIND OF LIKE USING WORDS LIKE
"PROPITIOUS," BUT IT SHOULDN'T
BE A GUESSING GAME THAT YOU
STUDY FOR.
SO USING WORDS THAT WE USE IN
THE REAL WORLD, THAT MAKES A LOT
OF SENSE.
I THINK PROBABLY NICK LEMON IS
RIGHT, A LOT OF THESE CHANGES
ARE GOOD, BUT DON'T FORGET, THE
UNDERLYING MOTIVE, I THINK, IS
THE MARKET SHARE -- A MARKET
SHARE ONE.
>> Woodruff: SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR EDUCATION,
THANYOU.K
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE SECOND OF
A THREE-PART SERIES ON THE
IMPACT OF THE MELTDOWN AT THE
FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR POWER PLANT IN
JAPAN.
TONIGHT, WE LOOK AT QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE SAFETY OF FISHING IN
THE REGION, NOW AND IN THE
FUTURE.
NEWSHOUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
MILES O'BRIEN TRAVELED THERE
RECENTLY AND HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: AS BRISK WINTER
MORNINGS GO, THIS WAS A FINE ONE
TO GO FISHING.
STEAMED OUT OF THE PORT OF
JAPAN.
OUR CAPTAIN WAS A
FOURTH-GENERATION FISHERMAN HIS
SON IS A AT THE HELM.
THE PREDECESSORS IN THE FAMILY
BUSINESS NEVER WENT ON AN
EXPEDITION LIKE THIS ONE.
WE CANNOT EAT THE FISH WE CATCH,
HE TOLD ME.
ALL FISH MUST BE RELEASED.
WE ARE ALLOWED TO FISH ONLY THE
AMOUNT NECESSARY FOR INSPECTION.
THE BOAT WAS IN TROUBLED WATERS,
FISHING FOR DATA, PART OF A
LONG-TERM EFFORT TO FIGURE OUT
WHEN, IF EVER, FISH CAUGHT NEAR
THE FUKUSHIMA DAIICHI POWER
PLANT WILL BE SAFE TO EAT.
THE NETS FILLED WITH FLOUNDER,
THEY THREW MOST BACK INTO THE
PACIFIC.
IN THE END, THE HAUL IS JUST ONE
SMALL BUCKET, ABOUT 12 POUNDS OF
FISH HEADED TO A LAB TO BE
TESTED FOR RADIONUCLEIDES.
THE TEST IN JAPAN IS THE MOST
STRINGENT IN THE WORLD.
WE CATCH FISH EXCEEDING THE
SAFETY STANDARDS, I DON'T THINK
THERE ARE MANY, THOUGH, HE SAYS.
BECAUSE WE'RE IN THE
20-KILOMETER ZONE, I THINK WE
SHOULD BE CAUTIOUS.
SCIENTISTS WHO HAVE STUDIED
THESE WATERS WOULD NOT DISAGREE.
KEN IS A SENIOR SCIENTIST AT THE
OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION IN
MASSACHUSETTS, HE WAS PART OF
THE TEAM FOR 12 WEEKS AFTER THE
MELTDOWN AND A RESEARCH
EXPEDITION.
HE CUT HIS SCIENTIFIC TEETH
STUDYING THE CHERNOBYL MELTDOWN
ON THE BLACK SEA.
>> I KNEW IT WAS IMPORTANT TO
GET THERE AS QUICK AS WE COULD
TO SEE WHAT WAS HAPPENING IN THE
OCEAN AT THAT TIME.
>> Reporter: HE AND HIS TEAM
HAD GATHERED SEDIMENT, CORE AND
WATER SAMPLES OFF FUKUSHIMA
AFTER SEVERAL DIFFERENT VOICES.
THE REAL HEAVY LIFTING TO
MEASURE THE RADIOACTIVITY IN THE
WATER IS DONE IN LABS.
>> THIS IS FUKUSHIMA FROM OUR
CREWS THIS PAST SEPTEMBER.
WE FOUND THERE IS STILL
CONTAMINATION --
>> Reporter: CRYST IALS
TRACKING TWO ISOTOPES.
137 AND 134.
CESIUM 137 HAS A HALF-LIFE OF 30
YEARS, SO IT TAKES ABOUT 300
YEARS TO MOSTLY DISAPPEAR.
BUT CESIUM 134 DOESN'T STICK
AROUND AS LONG WITH A HALF-LIFE
OF ONLY TWO YEARS, IT'S ALL BUT
GONE AFTER 20.
SO SCIENTISTS CAN SAY WITH
CERTAINTY THAT CESIUM 134 FOUND
TODAY IS --
>> IT'S STILL NOT GONE AWAY.
IT'S INDICATING THE REACTORS ARE
LEAKING WHICH IS MORE CESIUM AND
THERE IS STILL A PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: THE PLUME OF
WATER TAINTED WITH RADIATION
FROM FUKUSHIMA IS LY ONNOW
REACHING THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
PACIFIC.
THIS HAS PROMPTED AN ONLINE
TSUNAMI AT PSEUDOSCIENCE BLOG
RUMORS AND WILD ACCUSATIONS ON
THE U.S. WEST COAST.
THIS VIRAL YOUTUBE VIDEO SHOWS A
MAN WAVING A GEIGER COUNTER AT A
BEACH NEAR SAN FRANCISCO.
IT SEEMS SCARY, BUT THE EXPERTS
SAY IT IS MEANINGLESS.
IN FACT, THE REAL EXPERTS SAY
THE AMOUNT OF CESIUM IN THE
PLUME IS NOT AND WILL NOT BE A
THREAT TO MARINE OR HUMAN HEALTH
5,000 MILES FROM FUKUSHIMA.
>> IF WE GET UP TO ABOUT 7,
THAT'S BEYOND WHAT I'M ACTUALLY
EXPECTING AND WILL BE A THOUSAND
TIMES LESS THAN WHAT WE'RE
ALLOWED TO HAVE IN OUR DRINKING
WATER.
>> Reporter: THAT SAID, IF ANY
SCIENTIST WORTH HIS SALT WOULD
LIKE HARD DATA TO CONFIRM IT.
SO HE IS AMONG A CADRE OF
SCIENTISTS ASKING VARIOUS
FEDERAL AGENTS TO FUND A STUDY
ON THE FUKUSHIMA PLUME AS IT
ARRIVES IN THE U.S.
THEY APPROACH THE NATIONAL
OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION, THE DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY, THE ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY, THE NUCLEAR
REGULATORY COMMISSION AND THE
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS
AND TECHNOLOGY.
ALL SAID THE SAME THING -- IT'S
NOT THEIR RESPONSIBILITY.
>> ONE OF OUR FRUSTRATIONS IS
OUR GOVERNMENT HASN'T TAKENHIS T
ON AS SOMETHING WE SHOULD
SPONSOR IN TERMS OF OUR NATIONAL
INTERESTS.
THERE IS OFTEN A LOT OF
FINISHING POINTING GOING ON AND
WE HOPE IN THE LONG RUN WE CAN
MAKE PROGRESS TO FIND A HOME, AS
WE CALL IT.
>> Reporter: IN THE MEAN TIME,
HE IS RELYING ON FOUNDATION
SUPPORT AND DOING SOME CROWD
SOURCING.
>> ALL IT TAKES IS FILLING UP
ONE OF THESE CONTAINERS.
>> Reporter: HE LAUNCHED A
WEB SITE AND CREATED THESE KITS
TO MAKE IT EASY FOR ANYONE TO DO
SOME FIELDWORK.
INTERESTED INDIVIDUALS AND
COMMUNITIES PAY $550 FOR THE
FOX, GATHER SAMPLES AND SHIP
THEM TO WOODS HALL FOR ANALYSIS.
THE DATA IS SHARED ONLINE.
SO FAR DONORS HAVE FUNDED 33
SAMPLE SITES.
BUT HOW IS THE RADIATION
AFFECTING THE CREATURES THAT
LIVE IN THE SEA AND ULTIMATELY
THE HUMAN BEINGS WHO ENJOY
EATING SEAFOOD?
>> THIS ONE.
AT'S CESIUM 134.
>> Reporter: IN NEW YORK AT
STONEY BROOKE UNIVERSITY, THIS
MAN IS FOCUSED ON RADIOACTIVITY
IN FISH.
HE STUDIES TUNA.
THESE AMAZING CREATURES SPAWN
NEAR JAPAN, MIGRATE NEAR
CALIFORNIA AND RETURN TO JAPAN.
HE MEASURED TUNA CAUGHT IN
SAN DIEGO FOUR MONTHS AFTER THE
MELTDOWN.
>> WE WERE QUITE SURPRISED TO
SEE THAT EVERY SINGLE FISH WE CF
FUKUSHIMA DERIVED
RADIONUCLEOIDES IN THEM.
>> Reporter: THIS ONLY
MEASURED 10 MILLIGRAMS OF
FUKUSHIMA CESIUM.
THE ALLOWABLE IN JAPAN IS 100.
>> IT'S VERY, VERY LOW AND MUCH
LOWER FROM THE NAY CHIEWRL
OCCURRING RADIUM WHICH NO ONE
WAS EVER WORRIED ABOUT IN THE
FIRST PLACE.
>> Reporter: BUT EATING BOTTOM
FISH LIKE FLOUNDER IS ANOTHER
MATTER.
EATING FISH ACESIUM AT THE POWES
MADE IT INTO THE SEDIMENT,
MAKING THESE FLOUNDER UNABLE TO
CATCH AND SELL ANYTIME SOON.
>> THOSE LEVELS ARE VERY HIGH
AND IN SOME CASES CLEARLY EXCEED
SAFETY LIMITS.
I WOULD CERTAINLY AVOID EATING
THOSE FISH.
>> Reporter: HE GAVE US
FLOUNDER SAMPLES TO TEST
INDEPENDENTLY.
WE TOOK THE FLOUNDER OVER TO THE
CITIZENS RADI RADIOACTIVITY MEAG
STATION.
THE FISH WERE CHOPPED INTO SMALL
PIECES AND PUT INTO A
LEAD-SHROUDED GUAM NAY
SPECTROMETER TO TEST ALL GAMMA
DIATRAION EMITTERS.
THE NUMBERS WERE LOWER THAN
EXPECTED.
IN THE FLOUNDER, AMOUNTS SAFE
ENOUGH TO EAT.
BUT FISHERMEN WOULD HAVE TO
CAPTURE AND TEST MORE FLOUNDER
BEFORE THEY CAN BE DECLARED SAFE
TO EAT, JUST PART OF THE
FRUSTRATION.
THE NUMBER OF FISH IS INCREASING
FOR THREE YEARS, HE SAYS, AND
THEY'RE GETTING BIGGER.
THREE YEARS AGO, HE ROAD OUT THE
TSUNAMI IN THE WHEELHOUSE OF
THIS BOAT.
HIS WIFE JUST BARELY ESCAPED
BEFORE THEIR HOME WAS WASHED
AWAY AND THEY NOW LIVE IN TINY
TEMPORARY QUARTERS.
NOW HE WONDERS IF HE HAS LOST
HIS LEGACY AS WELL.
THE FIFTH GENERATION OF SATO
FISHERMEN MAY VERY WELL BE THE
LAST.
>> Woodruff: IN EGYPT, THE TRIAL
OF THREE AL-JAZEERA JOURNALISTS,
WHICH HAS SPARKED A GLOBAL
OUTCRY BY PRESS FREEDOM
ADVOCATES, RESUMED TODAY.
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS.
>> Brown: TANKS GUARDED THE
FORTIFIED ENTRANCES OF CAIRO'S
TORA PRISON TODAY.
INSIDE, AL JAZEERA JOURNALISTS
MOHAMED FAHMY, BAHER MOHAMMED
AND PETER GRESTE, WEARING WHITE
PRISON UNIFORMS, STOOD IN THE
COURTROOM'S DEFENDANT CAGE.
THEY AND OTHER AL-JAZEERA
JOURNALISTS ARE ACCUSED OF
ENDANGERING EGYPTIAN NATIONAL
SECURITY BY ASSISTING A
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION,
NAMELY: THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
THE MILITARY-BACKED GOVERNMENT
BANNED THE GROUP AFTER OUSTING
PRESIDENT MOHAMED MORSI IN JULY.
AL-JAZEERA MAINTAINS THE CHARGES
ARE "ABSURD, BASELESS AND
FALSE," AS DO THE JOURNALISTS'
RELATIVES, WHO SPOKE AFTER THE
HEARING.
>> ( translated ): THE
ACCUSATIONS DIRECTED TOWARDS
THEM ARE FAR FROM THE TRUTH,
NONE OF THEM ARE AFFILIATED TO
ANY POLITICAL PARTY, MOVEMENT,
OR THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD, THEY
USE THE SAME EQUIPMENT USED BY
ALL OTHER CHANNELS.
IF THEY HAVE A PROBLEM WITH AL-
JAZEERA, THE JOURNALISTS HAVE
NOTHING TO DO WITH IT
THE DEFENDANTS' LAWYER CLAIMED
PROGRESS, BASED ON THE WAY THE
HEARING WENT.
>> ( translated ): TODAY THE
SESSION WAS TO HEAR WITNESS
TESTIMONIES.
THE MOST IMPORTANT OF THESE WAS
THE ACCUSATIONS DIRECTED TOWARDS
THESE THREE DEFENDANTS HAVE
COMPLETELY COLLAPSED.
>> Brown: THE TRIAL HAS SPARKED
OUTRAGE AMONG HUMAN RIGHTS
GROUPS, JOURNALISTIC
ORGANIZATIONS AND OTHERS.
PROTESTERS HAVE DEMONSTRATED AT
EGYPTIAN CONSULATES IN MEXICO
CITY, ISTANBUL, AND ELSEWHERE
DEMANDING THE JOURNALIST'S
RELEASE.
AND IN FEBRUARY, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION URGED EGYPT TO
DROP THE CHARGES.
WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY JAY
CARNEY:
>> THE GOVERNMENT'S TARGETING OF
JOURNALISTS AND OTHERS ON
QUESTIONABLE CLAIMS IS WRONG AND
IT DEMONSTRATES AN EGREGIOUS
DISREGARD FOR THE PROTECTION OF
BASIC RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS.
>> Brown: AL-JAZEERA HAS ALSO
SPRHEAEADED AN ONLINE CAMPAIGN
WITH TWITTER PHOTOS OF HUNDREDS
OF PEOPLE WITH THEIR MOUTHS
TAPED SHUT AND THE HASHTAG "FREE
A.J. STAFF."
THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS
INSTITUTE SAYS THE CASE
HIGHLIGHTS GROWING DANGERS TO
JOURNALISTS WORLDWIDE.
IN ALL, 119 MEMBERS OF THE PRESS
DIED WHILE ON ASSIGNMENT IN
2013.
NO PLACE WAS MORE DEADLY THAN
SYRIA, WHERE THE ONGOING CIVIL
WAR CLAIMED THE LIVES OF 16
JOURNALISTS LAST YEAR.
>> WE EXPLORE THE ALGIERS CASE
AND THREATS TO OTHER --
AL-JAZEERA CASE.
WELCOME, ALISON.
WHAT EXACTLY IS THE GOVERNMENT
SAYING AL-JAZEERA JOURNALISTS
DID?
>> THEY'RE SAYING NOT JUST THE
BULK TO HAVE THE JOURNALISTS
CURRENTLY IN JAIL BUT ALL
INCLUDING JOURNALISTS FROM
TURKEY AND YEMEN, THAT THEY HAVE
BEEN PRACTICING TERRORISM BY
AFFILIATING WITH THE TERRORIST
GROUP, MOSTLY.
THEY'RE ALSO CLAIMING, IN SOME
CASES THAT THE JOURNALISTS ARE
NOT LICENSED TO WORK IN EGYPT
AND ARE STIRRING THE POT.
IN OTHER WORDS, GOING AGAINST
THE EGYPTIAN GOVERNMENT AND
SHOWING THE EGYPTIAN GOVERNMENT
IN A VERY BAD LIGHT.
THAT IS THEIR CHIEF COMPLAINT.
>> Brown: DAVID, WHAT'S YOUR
READING OF THIS PARTICULAR CASE?
SOME OF IT IS ATTACHED TO
AL-JAZEERA BEING FUNDED BY THE
QATAR GOVERNMENT WHICH IS AT
ODDS WITH THE EGYPTIAN
GOVERNMENT.
>> IT'S PART OF A STRUGGLE WHERE
THE MILITARY IS TRYING TO CRUSH
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
THE EGYPTIAN MILITARY SEES
AL-JAZEERA AS PART OF QATAR'S
EFFORT TO PAC TO BACK THE BROTH.
QATAR DENIES IT AND AL-JAZEERA
DENIES IT.
THE CHARGES ARE ABSURD AS I'VE
SEEN AND IT'S A SCAPEGOAT FOR
PROBLEMS IN THE COUNTRY.
>> Brown: ALISON, YOU'VE
TALKED TO OFFICIALS THERE.
WHAT ARE ARE THE STAKES, FIRST
IN EGYPT ITSELF?
>> WELL, THE PROBLEM IS -- WELL,
THERE ARE MANY PROBLEMS, BUT THE
MAIN PROBLEM IS THIS IS CAUSING
PROBLEMS NOT BY JOURNALISTS, NOT
ONLY JOURNALISTS IN EGYPT BUT
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS AS WELL.
SOME OF THESE PEOPLE WHO HAVE
ATTACKED JOURNALISTS AND MOST TO
HAVE THE ONES WHO HAVE BEEN
PHYSICALLY ATTACKED HAVE BEEN
BROADCAST JOURNALISTS BECAUSE
THEY ARE MOST VISIBLE,
ESPECIALLY CAMERAMEN.
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE ATTACKING
THEM ARE GETTING AWAY WITH IT.
THERE'S A CLIMATE OF IMPUNITY
WHICH IS A VERY BIG PROBLEM
THERE.
BUT THE STAKES ARE REALLY,
REALLY HIGH.
MOST RECENTLY, TWO YEARS AGO,
EGYPT WASN'T EVEN ON THE RADAR
IN TERMS OF ONE OF THE MOST
DANGEROUS PLACES IN THE WORLD
FOR JOURNALISTS.
TODAY, IT IS ONE OF THE MOST
DANGEROUS PLACES FOR
JOURNALISTS, AND ONE OF THE BIG
PROBLEMS IS THAT WE DON'T SEE A
SOLUTION TO THIS ANYTIME SOON.
WE'RE HOPING THERE WILL BE SOME
SORT OF DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION,
MAYBE A CONVERSATION BETWEEN
AL-JAZEERA AND THE MILITARY
GOVERNMENT, BUT THEY'RE VERY FAR
APART, AND THERE IS A GREAT
DISDAIN FOR AL-JAZEERA FROM
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, MILITARY
OFFICIALS IN EGYPT AND FROM
CITIZENS.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY, AS
DAVID MENTIONED, WE DON'T
BELIEVE THAT JOURNALISTS SHOULD
BE JAILED FOR WHAT THEY WRITE OR
WHAT THEY BROADCAST ON RADIO OR
TELEVISION.
>> Brown: DAVID --
AND THEY CERTAINLY SHOULD NOT
BE DETAINED.
>> Brown: DAVID, AS WE
MENTIONED, THERE'S A LOT OF
OUTSIDE PRESSURE COMING FROM THE
OUTSIDE WORLD.
WHAT'S YOUR EXPERIENCE, IN
PARTICULAR, AND IN A CASE LIKE
THIS, HOW MUCH IMPACT DOES THAT
HAVE?
IS THERE THE POSSIBILITY THAT IT
ALSO CAUSES SOMEWHAT OF A
BACKLASH?
>> THERE ARE SORT OF TWO
DIFFERENT DYNAMICS GOING ON.
I WAS KIDNAPPED BY INSURGENTS
AND THAT IS A DANGER JOURNALISTS
ARE FACING.
THERE IS ACTUALLY 30 JOURNALISTS
KIDNAPPED AND MISSING IN SYRIA
MOST GRABBED BEIJI HADN'T REBELS
IN THE NORTH OF THE COUNTRY.
IN EGYPT THIS IS GOVERNMENT
CRACKING DOWN ON JOURNALISTS.
WORLDWIDE, ROUGHLY A 50%
INCREASE OF JOURNALISTS IN JAIL
SINCE 2008.
211 JOURNALISTS IN JAIL AT THIS
POINT.
IT'S OUTRAGEOUS.
YOU HAVE BOTH GROUPS,
GOVERNMENTS BLAMING JOURNALISTS
AND INSURGENTS AT THE SAME TIME.
I THINK PUBLIC PRESSURE CAN HELP
WITH GOVERNMENTS.
IRAN WAS PRESSURED A GREAT DEAL
PUBLICLY WHEN THEY DETAINED
JOURNALISTS IN 2009, SO I THINK
THE MORE NOISE, THE MORE
COMPLAINTS AGAINST THE EGYPTIAN
GOVERNMENT THE BETTER.
>> Brown: ALISON, WE STARTED
BROADENING THIS OUT FROM EGYPT
INTERNATIONALLY.
HOW DOES THIS PARTICULAR CASE
FIT IN TO BIGGER CONCERNS FOR
JOURNALISTS AROUND THE WORLD?
>> THE PROBLEM IS THAT WE'VE
SEEN AN INCREASE, AND DAVID
ALLUDED TO THIS, AN INCREASE IN
THE NUMBER OF JOURNALISTS WHO
ARE BEING ATTACKED, KIDNAPPED,
JAILED WITHOUT BEING CHARGED FOR
INDEFINITELY PERIODS OF TIME,
AND ONE OF THE BIGGEST THINGS
BEING USED AGAINST JOURNALISTS
IS THIS IDEA OF JOURNALISTS
BEING TERRORISTS, AND THESE
CHARGES ARE GENERALLY VERY
FLIMSY CHARGES WITH NO PROOF,
AND PEOPLE ARE USING -- AND IT'S
INCREASED, OBVIOUSLY, SINCE
SEPTEMBER 11 -- ARE USING
TERRORISM AS A MEANS TO DETAIN
JOURNALISTS BECAUSE THEY DON'T
LIKE WHAT THEY READ OR WHAT THEY
HEAR.
THE PROBLEM IS ENORMOUS, AND WE
ARE VERY CONCERNED ALSO ABOUT
THE SAFETY OF THE JOURNALISTS,
NOT ONLY BEING DETAINED IN
PRISON BUT BEING MURDERED AND
BRUTALLY MURDERED.
SO WE'RE QUITE CONCERNED AND THE
U.N. COUNCIL OF HUMAN RIGHTS HAS
MADE THIS QUITE AN ISSUE, THE
SAFETY OF JOURNALISTS AND, OF
COURSE, WHERE I AM TODAY,
AUSTRIA, THE COUNTRY OF AUSTRIA
HAS MADE IT ONE OF THEIR
PRIORITIES TO ADDRESS THIS ISSUE
OF THE SAFETY OF JOURNALISTS AND
PARTICULARLY WOMEN JOURNALISTS.
THEY'VE SEEN AN UPTICK IN
ATTACKS AND ASSAULTS AND
EVERYTHING FROM RAPE TO
KIDNAPPING OF WOMEN JOURNALISTS,
MORE THAN WE'VE SEEN IN RECENT
HISTORY, AND THAT IS OF GREAT
CONCERN TO US.
>> Brown: DAVID, IN THE LAST
MINUTE OR SO, YOU CAN FILL IN
THAT PICTURE A LITTLE BIT MORE.
THIS IS UPGRADING THE DANGEROUS
FOR JOURNALISTS OPERATING AROUND
THE WORLD?
>> IT DEFINITELY IS, AND IT'S
ACTUALLY LOCAL JOURNALISTS
TARGETED THE MOST AND LOCAL
JOURNALISTS TRYING TO REPORT
ABOUT CORRUPTION AND PROBLEMS IN
THE GOVERNMENT ITSELF.
SO THERE WILL BE A VENEER OF
TERRORISM AND BROADER ISSUES,
BUT THIS IS JUST PEOPLE IN POWER
SILENCING JOURNALISTS WHO ARE
WRITING STORIES THAT HOLD THEM
ACCOUNTABLE.
THE STORIES THAT FOREIGN
JOURNALISTS GET A LOT MORE
HEADLINES BUT THE VAST MAJORITY
OF VTIMSIC AND THE MURDERS ARE
LOCAL JOURNALISTS BEING KILLED
BY LOCAL GOVERNMENTS OR LOCAL
CRIMINALS.
SO, AGAIN, THE PROBLEM IS THE
TREND IS TERRIBLE, IMPRISONMENTS
ARE UP, KILLINGS ARE UP AND IT'S
NOT STOPPING AND THERE HAS TO BE
MUCH MORE OF AN OUTCRY AGAINST
THIS.
>> Brown: THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: A BIG U.S. COAL
PRODUCER WILL PAY THE LARGEST
FINE EVER TO CLEAN UP POLLUTED
WATERS IN FIVE STATES.
WE'LL HAVE THAT STORY IN A
MOMENT.
BUT FIRST THIS IS PLEDGE WEEK ON
P.B.S.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
>> Ifill: WE RETURN NOW TO THE
E.P.A.'S SETTLEMENT TODAY WITH
ONE OF THE LARGEST COAL
PRODUCERS IN THE COUNTRY OVER
POLLUTION IN FIVE APPALACHIAN
STATES.
DINA CAPPIELLO, THE NATIONAL
ENVIRONMENT REPORTER FOR THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS, JOINS ME NOW.
27 1/2 MILLION DOLLARS IN FINDS,
$200 MILLION FOR THE CLEANUP.
IN THE RANGE OF PENALTY, HOW
DOES THIS RANK?
>> IT'S THE BIGGEST EVER FOR A
COMPANY THAT VIOLATES ITS WATER
POLLUTION PERMITS.
OTHER COMPANIES THAT PAID BIG
FINES IN THE PAST IN 2008, THE
E.P.A. SAID THIS IS THE BIGGEST
EVER FOR A COMPANY THAT VIOLATED
PERMITS IT HAD FROM STATES.
>> Ifill: DESCRIBE THE
POLLUTION.
>> WE'RE TALKING ABOUT 6,000
VIOLATIONS OVER 300 STATE-ISSUED
PERMITS, HUNDREDS OF STREAMS,
TRIBUTARIES AND RIVERS, 79
ACTIVE COAL MINUS, OVER 20 COAL
PROCESSING PLANTS WHERE THEY PUT
THE COAL AND WASH IT BEFORE IT'S
SHIPPED, OVER FIVE APPALACHIAN
STATES, SO IT'S A PRETTY MASSIVE
COVERAGE AREA FOR THE
SETTLEMENT.
>> ReporterSETTLEMENT.
>> Ifill: HOW DID THE
DISCHARGES OCCUR?
>> THEY'RE ACTUALLY PIPED INTO
THE WATERWAYS AND STATES ISSUE
PERMITS FOR THE COMPANIES THAT
GIVE THEM CERTAIN LIMITS AND IN
THIS CASE THIS COMPANY
REPEATEDLY FROM 2006 TO 2013
EXCEEDED THOSE LIMITS, THAT THEY
WERE ACTUALLY AUTHORIZED TO
DISCHARGE.
>> Ifill: IT'S NOT ILLEGAL TO
DISCHARGE, IT'S JUST THERE'S A
CAP ON HOW MUCH THEY CAN
DISCHARGE?
>> CORRECT, THEY HAVE AN AMOUNT
AND THEY WENT OVER THE AMOUNT
REPEATEDLY, IN SOME CASES OVER
35 TIMES THE LIMIT PUT INTO THE
PERMIT.
>> Ifill: HOW MANY VIOLATIONS,
6,000?
>> OVER 6,000.
>> Ifill: JUST THIS ONE
COMPANY?
>> THIS ONE COMPANY.
IT'S A VERY BIG COMPANY, COAL
CONGLOMERATE, IT'S BASED IN
VIRGINIA AND 66 OF ITS
SUBSIDIARIES.
>> Ifill: WHAT KIND OF
POLLUTANTS ARE WE TALKING ABOUT?
>> WE'RE TALKING ABOUT TOTAL
SUSPENDED SOLIDS IS WHAT THE
E.P.A. TALKS ABOUT, JUST BITS
AND PIECES OF THINGS THAT COME
OUT IN THE COAL MINING PROCESS
BUT THEY ALSO CONTAIN HEAVY
METALS WHICH ARE TOXIC TO FISH
AND OTHER WDLIFILE.
WE SAW THIS RECENTLY IN THE DUKE
ENERGY CASE, THE BIG COAL ASH
SPILL DOWN IN NORTH CAROLINA,
INCLUDED MANY OF THE SAME
CONTAMINANTS.
WHILE THEY'RE NOT WATER QUALITY
IF THEY'RE FILTERED OUT IN
TREATMENT, THEY ARE PROBLEMS FOR
THE ECOLOGY OF THE WATERWAYS.
>> Ifill: WE TALKED ABOUT THE
NORTH CAROLINA CASE AND COVERED
THE WEST VIRGINIA CASE FROM A
FEW WEEKS -- TWO MONTHS AGO WHEN
WE FOUND OUT THE WATER WAS
CONTAMINATED AND MAY STILL BE.
IS THERE A CONNECTION?
>> THE CONNECTION IS COAL.
IT'S WIDELY KNOWN IN THE -- AND
THE E.P.A. HASSIC KNOWLEDGED
COAL HAS A BIG FOOTPRINT ON OUR
WATER RESOURCES, FROM THE MINING
OF COAL TO THE BURNING OF COAL
FOR ELECTRICITY AND THE WASTE
CREATED BY THAT PROCESS, JUST
WHAT HAPPENED IN DUKE ENERGY IN
NORTH CAROLINA.
SO IT'S ABOUT COAL.
THE WEST VIRGINIA SPILL WAS A
SPILL OF A CHEMICAL USED TO
CLEAN COAL.
>> Ifill: RIGHT.
WE'RE TALKING RIGHT NOW ABOUT
DISCHARGES FROM MINES THAT
HAPPEN ON A
AND THEN NORTH CAROLINA IS ABOUT
COAL ASH SPILLING INTO A
WATERWAY.
THIS IS ASH THAT'S COLLECTED
ACTUALLY BY AIR POLLUTION
EQUIPMENT AND SO WE'RE
TRANSFERRING WHAT WE'RE TAKING
OUT OF THE AIR INTO THE
WATERWAYS.
>> Ifill: HOW DOES THE COAL
INDUSTRY RESPOND TO THIS?
>> IT WAS VERY INTERESTING.
THEY ACKNOWLEDGED THEY HAD THESE
VIOLATIONS BUT MADE A POINT
THEY'RE A VERY LARGE COMPANY.
THEY ACQUIRED NASSY ENERGY IN
2011 I,NCREASING THE PORTFOLIO
AND PERMITS.
OVER 700 PERMITS, THEY TOLD ME,
FROM STATE OFFICIALS.
5,000 DISCHARGE POINTS.
THEY SAID, IN THE GRAND SCHEME
OF THINGS, THERE WASN'T A LOT.
WE'RE 99.8% IN COMPLIANCE ALL
THE TIME.
>> Ifill: SO THE COST OF DOING
BUSINESS?
>> THEY SAID WE PREDICTED THIS
WAS GOING TO HAPPEN, WE
ACCOUNTED FOR IT AND WE EXPECT
NO WAY OFF, BUT THEY'RE SAYING
WE'RE A VERY LARGE COMPANY, CAN
DO BETTER BUT WE DO WELL NOW.
>> Ifill: SO A SIZE OF
$27.5 MILLION IN FINES, WHAT
DOES IT REQUIRE THE COMPANIES DO
NOW?
>> THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO PUT
WASTE WATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS ON
THE DISCHARGES ON THE MINES.
NOW THE WASTE IS COLLECTED AND
SETTLES OUT IN CRUDE SYSTEMS
BEFORE EMPTIED INTO THE STREAM,
SO THEY HAVE TO DO BOOST
MONITORING AND HAVE TESTIFY A
THIRD PARTY TO VALIDATE THE
MONITORING AND THEY WILL HAVE TO
DIGITALLY RECORD THE VIOLATIONS.
IN MANY CASES, THE COMPANIES ARE
SUBMITTING REAMS OF ACTUAL PAPER
TO THE STATES AND THE STATES
DON'T REALLY HAVE THE AVAILABLE
RESOURCES TO KEEP TRACK OF THE
VIOLATIONS REPORTED BY THESE
COMPANIES AND FOLLOW UP ON THEM.
>> Ifill: ON SELF REPORTING,
DOES A SETTLEMENT TELL US THE
EPIAP IS GETTING -- E.P.A. IS
GETTING TOUGHER OR THE COMPANIES
ARE STEPPING UP?
>> I THINK THE EA WITH THE 2008
AND SETTLEMENT TODAY IS KEEPING
TABS AND KNOWS THIS IS A TOUGH
THG TOIN GET THEIR ARMS AROUND
AND STATES NEED HELP TO POLICE
THIS.
THERE'S JUST SO MUCH OF IT OUT
THERE.
SO MANY MINUS, SO MANY DISCHARGE
POINTS AND I THINK YOU WILL SEE
VERY QUICKLY REPUBLICANS IN
CONGRESS AND COAL INDUSTRY AND
THEIR ALLIES TALK ABOUT THIS IN
THE BROADER CONTEXT OF OBAMA
CRACKING DOWN ON THIS, THE COAL,
THE CARBON LIMIT POLLUTIONS
IMPOSED BY POWER PLANTS AND A
LARGER TAKE ON COAL.
>> Ifill: SO THERE'S A
CRACKDOWN OF SOME KIND?
>> CORRECT.
>> Ifill: DINA CAPPIELLO OF
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE OTHER
MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE U.S., RUSSIA AND OTHER
POWERS MET IN PARIS TO DISCUSS
UKRAINE, BUT MADE NO HEADWAY.
AND THE RUSSIANS DECLINED TO
MEET WITH UKRAINE'S NEW
GOVERNMENT.
THE SENATE BLOCKED PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S NOMINEE TO HEAD THE
CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION OF THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT.
AND THE COLLEGE BOARD DROPPED
THE ESSAY REQUIREMENT AS PART OF
THE S.A.T.
STTINGAR IN 2016, IT WILL BE
OPTIONAL.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, ECONOMIST AND
PSYCHOLOGIST DAN ARIELY WRITES
ABOUT A STRANGE CORRELATION
BETWEEN THE BUSY EXAM PERIODS
FOR STUDENTS ENROLLED IN COLLEGE
AND THE DEATH OF GRANDPARENTS.
BUT THE TREND DOESN'T HOLD FOR
THOSE WHO TAKE SPECIAL ONLINE
COURSES CALLED "M.O.O.C.'S."
READ HIS ANALYSIS ON MAKING
SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
VALUE OF SOME ECONOMIC REPORTS,
LIKE MONTHLY JOBS NUMBERS.
AND WHAT THEY REALLY SAY ABOUT
THE STATE OF THE ECONOMY.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE.
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.